

“Sampling is one of the most important influences on the validity of a statistical study. The intent of statistical practices is to draw conclusions about a population by examining a subset of that population and then using those conclusions to predict trends in the wider population. The validity of a statistical study, therefore, is highly susceptible to bias introduced during selection. As I mentioned previously, the two-phase sampling method is extremely useful for cases in which the expense of testing for the study variable prohibits the testing of a large sample of a population, by creating a sample population with an artificially large proportion of the informative subjects for the study variable. This skewed sampling introduces bias, which, if not corrected, reduces the predictive ability of two-phase sampling studies, and, as a result, restricts their use despite their cost-effectiveness. Dr. Hu's method greatly increases the predictive accuracy of studies that make use of two-phase sampling, and her open-source software package makes it available to the myriad of research teams that benefit from the savings associated with it. Her research has, therefore, contributed substantially to the study of public health"

Monogenic diseases, or diseases resulting from the modification of a single human gene, affect approximately one percent of all human beings at birth. Current estimates place the total number of monogenic diseases at over ten thousand. GWAS are some of the most effective tools for the characterization of monogenic diseases and have helped to characterize the genetic causes of conditions ranging from atrial fibrillation to schizophrenia. However, monogenic diseases account for only a fraction of the total number of diseases with genetic components, and the reliability of GWAS for diseases that arise from gene-gene interactions is questionable due to variation in interaction definitions. This greatly reduces the ability of researchers to investigate these conditions and hinders the development of treatments for them. Dr. Hu's study of interaction effect definitions provides a framework for scientists to select such definitions in a way that minimizes error and has also widened the scope of conclusions that are able to be drawn from prior studies by furnishing a means to accurately compare them. Dr. Hu's work is, therefore, crucial to the modern study of these conditions, and she herself is an essential scientific asset to the United States.”


Dr. Hu has conducted research that focuses on air quality monitoring, which is a matter of significant concern for the United States. Nearly four in ten Americans live in an area where ground-level ozone or airborne particulate levels frequently exceed safe levels. The majority of these people live in urban areas, which are overwhelmingly more likely to experience unsafe levels of air quality than less developed areas. Approximately 200,000 deaths annually are attributable to the adverse health effects of air pollution, which include developing or worsening asthma, increased risk of heart disease, increased risk of respiratory infections and cancers, and central nervous system defects. The ability of health officials to combat the effects of air pollution is dependent on the ability to collect precise measurements of air quality. Dr. Hu is currently engaged in developing air quality mapping methods for the block-by-block evaluation of California’s San Francisco Bay Area using her expertise in complex surveying. This survey is of obvious benefit to the state of California, and the methods Dr. Hu has developed are also able to be applied to other urban areas, enabling a more detailed understanding of air quality and more targeted health efforts nationwide

In 2015, over 3 million Americans were diagnosed with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), with the majority of diagnoses being Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. While the rates of hospitalization with IBD as a primary cause are low, the rate of hospitalization wherein IBD plays a secondary role is much higher, at 59.7 per 100,000 Americans. In addition, individuals with IBD are at increased risk for other chronic health conditions, such as cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, cancer, arthritis, kidney disease, and liver disease. Individuals with IBD are also more likely to be sleep-deprived and less likely to meet the minimum guidelines for aerobic and muscle-strengthening physical activity. One of the most common treatments for IBD is a class of drugs called anti-tumor necrosis factors (anti-TNF), which are designed for IBD as well as related conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis. However, certain groups treated with anti-TNF drugs are at risk for developing psoriasiform lesions, and the incidence of this phenomenon in IBD patients has not been well-documented. Dr. Hu's research has helped to improve quality of life for Americans with IBD by helping to address this gap in knowledge on the risk factors of anti-TNF therapy.
