
Finding negative controls [Fun Story]

I am working on a paper about how to use negative controls to adjust for unmeasured confouding bias. The idea is simple. We find an outocome (referred to as the negative control outcome) 
that is not caused by the expsoure of interest but related to the sources of the confouding. We expect to find no association between the exposure 
and the negative control outcome unless the sources of confouding are there. By this means, we are able to detect the confounding 
bias due to some unmeasured variables. OK.This is not the fun part. 

In one task, I need to come up with a negative control outcome example in Medicare insurance claim data that is associated with the green environment but not the particulate matter (PM),
so I can adjust for the confouding bias due to the green environments in the study of PM's causal effect on mental health. Man! Unbelievable! It is so hard to find such a variable!
For every disease I searched that have been reported to be associated with the green environment and I don't believe it can be caused by PM,  
there is a paper claiming this disease is associated with PM, sleep quality, skin cancer, ... I would expect there must be negative results but how do I even start the search? Publication bias is real !
I am searching for negative results. How dare you, Kate!

So... my brain starts to spin, spin, spin faster, what weirld diseases you may get in a park and no researchers will claim its asscociation with PM? 
Let's see... the bats flying around in the twilight? the raccoons attacking children in the golden gate park? the geese chasing people around ... Guess what?
I find it! I find this amamzing list of the weird icd 10 codes for animal attacks!

https://allzonems.com/weird-icd-10-codes-for-animal-attakcs/

W55.21 – Bitten By Cow
W63.33 – Pecked By A Chicken
W56.22 – Struck By A Orca
W56.11XA – Bitten by Sea Lion
W61.12 – Struck by Macaw (so specific? not other parrots?)
...

Finger crossed no research will find an association between Parrots and PM. 

