Aug-12-2022 

How do we judge a research work?

When reviewing a paper, usually we are asked to look at four things: clariy, accuracy, meaningfulness, and whether a paper is interesting. 

Let me put these into different words: researh accuracy, research communication, research impacts, and research taste. 

Most of graduate school training is for research accuracy. Researchers learnt enough logics and techniques to help them produce a piece of work 
technically correct. They may make mistakes but  a reviewer sometimes can help.

Research communication is often a weakness of researchers due to a lack of training in scientific communication or I should say  there is just not
enough incentive to excel it during the research training period. This is an obvious problem and helpable. Indeed if given enough time, every work 
could be rewritten until it is clear. A small sadness is now we rush to publication, so even a  writer who has potential to write clearly 
may lack time to make it happen.  Can I call our age "Vomiting Age"? 


Reseasrch impacts sound an important metric but meaningfulness is relative. Every weapon and spaceship in a star war movie is useful for the movie per se. 
You can not argue these weapons and tools are not useful. Some characters in this fantacy world may desparately need it otherwise they could die...
From another  perspective, wherever there is a community there is usefulness. As a reviewer I almost feel there is no need to to check meaningfulness. Epecially when seeing a researcher so equiped with argument techniques, I wonder everything 
could be phrased to be impactful. I don't want to argue I just want to say you win! Move on ...

However a fantacy world is a fantacy. What's the impact of this paper on our daily life?  When this line of 
thought starts and when I can feel my temper is risng...well... it's time for me to tell you and tell myself again a story long long ago ...

I once dated a guy... who ... Won ...an ... Oscar ... and he has a PhD. Surpise? Surprise. Isn't that is all dating about? Surpise? Surprise. So with a glass of wine sitting
in a nice raturant we start chatting about research on our first date. It turns out the goal of his PhD thesis is to simulate water drops for scientists. Unfortunately However 
this simulation system is so off from the real world that the tool at the end deemed not useful. The scietific community abadons it completely. But the story 
does not end here. Guess what? This is the exact  program behind"Shrek" and .... make him to win Ocscar. If you notice all the sticky mud in Shrek that's the first time
it appears in a cartoon. Surpise? Surprise. Research meaningfulnes is relative. Let's leave it there. 

Now finally, research taste. Can I judge research taste? In what position can I judge? No, I don't  have and I don't want. I just 
wish I am not forced me to cite a research whose taste I dislike. It's hard to swallow. 

After I finish writing this piece, I wonder is it meaningful to accept or reject a paper? It's meaningful to get paid to help a research piece get accurate and clearer.
It's meaningnessless to judge a paper's meaningfulness and taste. 

